On the Cisco ESEA server we need to go to network configuration and add a triple A client.
In other words we need to add the Cisco router we need to specify the host name of the router to call
the right one and then we need to specify the IP address of the router tendered wandered wandered to
a one the key that we used
was Cisco shown over here
so we need to specify Cisco as the key and we are going to authenticate.
In this example using tactics Cisco.
IOW there are other options such as radius but we'll use tax in this example.
And I'm going to click submit and apply to apply that configuration
once again under users.
We only have a user called admin.
So now let's test whether we can log back in to write a one as David so into David in the password notice
authentication has failed on the TAC hack server going to reports an activity we can look at failed
attempts and we can see here that we've got a failed attempt for David external database user invalid
or bad password logging is Mary using a Mary password Cisco I'll refresh the logged in failures and
notice Mary has failed but if we log in as admin Cisco the authentication passes and we are able to
access the Rada show run pipe include user shows us that we have a user David and we use a Mary with
the relevant passwords but to the local username and password database is only used if the TAC server
is not available so as an example if I stop the tax service on the tax server and exit out of the router
and then log in as David I can access the broader so I can only use the local username and password
database if the TAC server is down.
If however the techniques server is up so I'll start the service again
if I try and log back in as David.
Notice authentication has failed and once again on the TAC server we can see that David failed the authentication.
I can however log back in as admin.
Now what's really nice about this is that you can create centralized user accounts so I could create
a user called user one set to their password
and click submit.
So when I look at the available users I now have a user called User 1 and without making any configuration
changes on the router we can log in as User 1 so that to use it doesn't exist in the local Rodda configuration
but exists on the TAC server if I want to I can disable the user account so user 1 is now disabled back
on the router if we try and log in as User 1 authentication has failed and once again looking at the
reports on the AC s server we can see failed attempts.
User 1 account is disabled so when they try to access this device Titi why 0.
In other words the console they log in has failed if they try to access that road remotely so they try
to tell it to the runner and log in as User 1 authentication has failed and refreshing the information
on the tech server we can see that user 1 has failed the authentication account is disabled and they
try to access Titi why 98.
In other words one of the V wine lines on the strata we're getting a lot of central information from
the ISIS server.
What we can also do is enable some debugging
so Logan is admin and then we can use command such as debug X and I'll just enable all of it and debug
triple A
and in this case will enable the authentication so when they use it tries to access the router we can
see quite a bit of information so Triple A authentication log in the users trying to log in we using
the default method.
Note on the V2 wine lines
no authentication methods have been set it's inheriting the default method so default is being used
authentication start package created.
We're trying to get a response from the user.
In this case the user took too long so let's try that again
I'll put in the user name of user 1 so we can see now it's asking for a password
and notice the response failed the server 10 1 1 1 has rejected that user name so let's put some spaces
then log in with a admin user log and succeeded so in this case we received a response of POS authentication
succeeded so go through the full process again
Telnet to the Rada default list is being used we are asking for the user account so that's admin asking
for the password
authentication succeeded so we can see what's taking place in the background here Triple A authentication
is being used
the right is told by the triple A server to ask the user for the user name and then to ask them for
the password and then to tell the user that they succeeded the authentication and can log in.
So that's an example of basic Triple A authentication on router 1 Now there two ways to set this up.
We're using the older method at the moment because these riders don't support the newer method where
we create a group.
So I'll show you that in a moment but before I do that I'll copy this configuration to rider t to show
you that we can create a central authentication server.
At the moment we haven't configured brought it to on the AC a server so we can still log in as David
so under network configuration we need to create an entry for too.
So write it to tendered one to a two is the IP address of Rata show IP interface brief so there's the
IP address key used is going to be Cisco and I'm going to click submit and apply.
So that Rod has now been configured so try and log in as David authentication has failed.
Try and log in as admin authentication passes.
We've now configured two routers with centralized authentication under the reports failed attempts we
can see that David failed the authentication attempt on the second router so we seek information for
both rather too and root a one.
Let's configure out a three.
I'll take this configuration and pasting two rather three
on rather three we can log in as David.
So that works but we can't log in his admin because we still need to configure the ACA server
so back on ISIS will add rather 3.
IP addresses tendered wandered 1 to 2 0 3 password or keys Cisco click submit.
The rod is not configured so previously we couldn't log in as admin but now hopefully we should be able
to let's try again.
David failed the so admin so admin Cisco works
David Cisco doesn't work.
Because the rod is not communicating with AC s but admin Cisco does.
So we've now got three routers configured to communicate with an AC S. server.
These writers are using an older version of IOW they're using version 12 that 4 and that version doesn't
support tactics so groups which is the new way of doing things and is what you need to know for the
exam.